1) fully analyze the entire repo, the dependencies, the documents, the files, the pipeline documents EVERYTHING
2) This task entails creating a plan for implementing a UI for the current project. As of right now the main script for the pipeline is src/modules/speech_to_clothing_with_rodin_api.py 
3) There are many considerations to take when thinking about implementing the UI and I want the plan to emphasize these considerations so that we do not end up going down unecessary rabbitholes. 
	i) The current pipeline employs comfyUI only at one stage (the generation of the 2d image from stablediffusion ). For the final version I would like to try and use comfyui for all the models. 
	ii) We need to switch from using the comfyUI endpoint on the school GPU (http://itp-ml.itp.tsoa.nyu.edu:9199/) to using jupyter notebooks to run our own instance of comfyui and getting data back from that. This is necessary because we will need to create our own custom nodes for stability fast 3d which currently has no comfyui integration. 
	iii) for the final UI I do not want any emojis in the viewer.html
	iv) I want the entire experience to occur from running a script once, and once we confirm that the script can run once fully all the way through I want to be able to have the script run endlessly on its own, meaning no need to keep closing and re-running the script it should automatically reset after some condition has been met (in the plan once we get to this stage where we want to implement proper automatic reset you can prompt me to describe, in detail, what I would want the condition to be)
	v) The entire interaction should be smooth and have no weird lagging interactions and prioritize having almost constant live video feedback on the html viwer. I mention this mainly because the current implementation employs opencv to grab the oak-d camera frames which is incompatible with having the html viewer also recieving these frames. because we still need python to be recieving frames at certain key moments in the pipeline (in order to send them through to the comfyui instance etc.) we will need to create a wrapper for the camera that allows us to grab the frames and simultaneously send them to different places. A last note: we really dont need the openCV/ python viewer as well since it is redundant, moreover might be laggy, and lastly we should not need any input from the keyboard everything should occur step by step automatically by matching conditions at each stage of the pipeline that I will describe in part 4)
	vi) The UI of the viewer should be well styled and not just a generic UI. Keep it minimalistic smooth edged and clean. the color theme should be on the purple side. make sure to create all the css and styling in a simple and easy to read manner so that I can eventually go in and manually customize all the UI to my standards. 
	vii) This project is for an installation that will use a 48.75" x 28" tv screen in a vertical orientation, therefore the ui elementes dont have to be responsive but there should be a window resize refresh because I need to open the window and make it fullscreen. Moreover, the html viewer should have all the elemnets natively well suited to the screen orientation and size at hand. 
	viii) the plan we are writing should be extremely granular, I want to make sure that you are able to execute each step carefully and without risk of breaking the code because you are rushing to complete before your context runs out. 
	ix) the plan should emphasize the following concepts: NO QUICK FIXES, TAKING A STEP BACK BEFORE BEGINNING IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CURRENT PHASE IS IMPORTANT TO UNDERSTAND WHAT HAS ALREADY BEEN IMPLEMNETED AS WELL AS WHAT STILL NEEDS TO BE IMPLEMNETED, KEEP IN MIND ALL THE FUTURE PHASES THAT STILL NEED TO BE IMPLEMENTED SO THAT WE CAN WRITE THE CODE WITH THE RIGHT INFRASTRUCTURE TO ACCOMODATE THOSE LATER IMPLEMENTATIONS, ALWAYS LINT BEFORE RETURNING.
	x) for any terminal commands you ask me to execute make sure to mention in what repo I need to be and whether I should be in the virtual environment or not
	xi) I would rather you be less verbose in your reports but have more characters to write the actual code with
	xii) do not hesitate to ask questions at any stage in order to fully understand how to implement something rather than blindly jumping into implementation and ending up doing the wrong thing
	xiii) I think for general implementation purposes we should try and implement the fully pipeline first using the rodin API and the comfyui endpoint that we have natively on the GPU (http://itp-ml.itp.tsoa.nyu.edu:9199/) and once we know that the pipeline is good we can attempt to switch out the models to run on our own custom instance of comfyui and try to get sf3d to work as well as any other more niche models (let me know if you think this is good thinking or whether this will end up being more complex than doing it the other way around) 
	xiv) you need to make sure any copy you add is on the forefront and not being obstructed by animations or any other elements on screen so the user can properly read them
	xv) since this is a camera interaction make sure we flip the camera feed from the get go
	xvi) there were a lot of issues with the mesh in the past mainly that you kept rendering it without texture because you were overriding the texture with this cyan color instead of using its native texture make sure not to do this
	xvii) the calibration logic for the mesh is not perfect and it is very complex. make sure to aquaint yourself well with it so you do not break it as you attempt to implement it in different areas or move it somewhere
4) The UI we want to build (granularly) should follow this step by step carefully and accurately.
	i) launch script 
	ii) the script opens a "viewer.html" on the browser that shows me what the oak-d pro camera is seeing.
	iii) take in user's speech and transcribe it to text. For this phase you have to again keep in mind that we will be running a constant live video feedback to the user as well as other backend processes. Currently we have a local instance of whisper running (src/modules/speechRecognition.py) and that might not be compatible with having the live video. thus I think the workaround is to have the voice transcription happen on the browser making sure to not just transcribe everything the user says as one big chunk (like we are doing now) but instead provide consistent feedback that what the user is saying is actually being transcribed by having what they transcribe appear on screen as a growing collection of words that are transcribed pretty much every 1-2 seconds. These words will appear on the viewer.html file (keep in mind the live video is still continuing in the background). Here is an image of a mockup and another initial implementation as an example of what i want /Users/fabrizioguccione/Projects/spoken-wardrobe-2-gpu/UI_Reference/speechTranscription.png moreover, we will be using loudness as the way to determine whether the user is speaking or not (tells us when to actually transcribe or not), and in order for this to work properly we need to first (before any transcription starts) do calibration for the loudness (like what we are currently doing), once that is done prompt the user to begin speaking and transcribe the chunks where loudness is above the calibration level set, then check whether loudness level is below thershold for more than 4 seconds as the indication that the user has stopped speaking and we can move on from this stage (more than 3-4 seconds of not above threshold is crucial to not have the transcription phase end during any slight pause that the user takes while thinking and instead have it be intentional to end the prompting/speech transcriptions phase). 
	iv) Once the user's speech is transcribed we want to move on to begin generating the clothing, but the first step in doing so is making sure that the data we get (in this case the image we will get for the generation) is of the user in a proper pose since if this image that we use for generation is not of high quality then the rest of the pipeline will not work as intended. In order to ensure this we wil prompt (on the viewer.html) for the user to step into an A-pose by overlaying this .png /Users/fabrizioguccione/Projects/spoken-wardrobe-2-gpu/UI_Reference/assets/aposeMan.webp and the ui should look like this /Users/fabrizioguccione/Projects/spoken-wardrobe-2-gpu/UI_Reference/aPoseUI.png where we have a 5 second countdown timer overlayed on top of the apose.png that should be at 50% opacity so the user can still see themselvs behind it. A nice addition to this would be making it sort of like a warning sign to make anybody who is not the user get out of the frame since that will also influence the final quality of the generation
	v) once the timer from part iv runs out we then take the clean frame at that moment (I want to emphasize clean frame so not including anything other than the actual frame from the camera, like the keypoints drawn from the oak-d depthai, as well as also emphasize that it should be the frame from the exact moment when the timer runs out because that is the only moment we expect the user to be in the right position)
	vi) now this is where the AI generation pipeline phase 1 begins (generation of the 2d image of the clothing). It should be again mentioned that we can and have been using comfyui endpoint at port 9199 on the school gpu as of right now but eventually jupyter notebook custom comfy instance might be the move. The following should be happening simulatenously at this phase: 
		1) On the user side once that countdown from the previous step terminates we then should show them some sort of loading screen saying that their clothing preview is being generated /Users/fabrizioguccione/Projects/spoken-wardrobe-2-gpu/UI_Reference/2dPreviewLoad_mockup.png /Users/fabrizioguccione/Projects/spoken-wardrobe-2-gpu/UI_Reference/2dPreviewLoad_v1.png as you can see from /Users/fabrizioguccione/Projects/spoken-wardrobe-2-gpu/UI_Reference/2dPreviewLoad_v1.png it is nice to show them the loading animation while also still allowing the live video to be active in the background so the user can still do somethign as it loads (a nice touch is the opaque overlay that makes it so that the attention is still focused on the loading animation and copy but as i mentioned still allows some view into the live video). 
		2) On the ai generation pipeline side, this is where the pipeline begins; we send that frame that we got and first segment out the different parts of the body (right now we are using local bodyPix, which is slow and not super accurate I would suggest either finding an equivalent that most importnatly can segment different body parts (specifically it needs to be able to dynamically select hands, head, and feet since that is where we do NOT want to draw clothing, as well as other parts like upper and lower legs, upper and lower arms, torso etc.). at this stage you could place in the plan a little research phase to see if you cant find another comfy integrated model that segments out hands and head and feet as well as the rest of the body parts) (in the past we have looked at using CozyHumanParser pascal /Users/fabrizioguccione/Projects/spoken-wardrobe-2-gpu/bodySegmentationReferences/CozyHumanParser_PascalReference.png comfy node although as you can see from the reference image it does not segment out the hands and feet separately, which instead bodypix does so cozyhumanparser is not really viable for our application and we need alternatives). Once we have a mask selecting the areas we want to inpaint over (where clothing should go so no head, hands, or feet) we pass that along with the voice transcription as prompt to an inpainting model (as of right now we are using stable diffusion but I have researched that the FLUX inpainting might be better especially for allowing us to tweak the generation more precisely (again the flux inpainting should be structured to be well prompt engineered to follow a similar style as the reference images found here /Users/fabrizioguccione/Projects/spoken-wardrobe-2-gpu/Not_A_Toy_Images). Once the inpainted image gets generated we want to do the following: send back both the actual whole generated image, as well as the "just clothing" image that is derived by cropping the entire image we got back from flux with the same mask used for inpainting so that we have just the clothing (again i want both of these to be sent back to the python script at the end of this stage) as well as saved in the generation folder for this run (the prompt should also be saved in whole as well as the original non inpainted image)
	vii) once the inpainted image (whole and just clothing) come back we want to do two things:
		1) begin the single image to 3d mesh pipeline, as of right now we can continue using rodin API but eventually we want to try and implement sf3d in our own comfyui instance in jupyter notebook with custom nodes (which will need to be implemented step by step being careful and critical about writing the right custom python for the custom nodes and installing it correctly. )
		2) show the user the full inpainted image as a "preview". this acts as the first climax of the interaction. Moreover, we want to stretch this part out to allow more time for the 3d mesh to generate without making the user explicitly wait for it to generate with nothing to do (which is why we begin it the 3d mesh generation as the images come back because we want to maximise the time when we show the user the preview 2d images before the 3d images come back that is usually a time intensive process). The Preview for the user should work like this: first, we show the full inpainted image as the "preview" such as /Users/fabrizioguccione/Projects/spoken-wardrobe-2-gpu/UI_Reference/preview_mockup.png and this should stay on the viewer.html for the user for 8 seconds, after which the second phase is a small animation where the full image is replaced using a fade effect by the cropped image where just the clothing are present (we fade away the full inpainted image and fade in (from inviisble) the cropped inpainted image where its just the clothing) and this should say "clothing extracted" and we can show this for another 8 seconds. After this you can show some text like "Generating 3d clothing for try on" and there should be some sort of pulsing element (not a loading bar since we do not know how far along the generation is from the API standpoint, only if we have info on the stages of generation can we implement this and we do not, so a pulsing element to show something is waiting to happen is good enough). 
	viii) Once the 3d image comes back is a crucial moment. We want to first show the user some sort of intermediary screen like "mesh generated! ready for real-time try on" then go to show the actual mesh on screen. Follow what the current pipeline has in terms of logic carefully since here is a crucial calibration step coming up. We should show the mesh and give instructions to make the person stand as if they were wearing the clothing on screen then a timer should countdown from 5 to make sure they can calibrate properly. Exactly when the timer runs out we should perform the A-pose calibration with the mesh and then display the instructions on screen to MOVE AROUND! so they know they can now infleuence the mesh.
	ix) At this point we need a condition to reset the interaction. make sure you keep track of all the variables/ things needed to reset the interaction and prompt me when we get to this stage of implementation to know what the condition shall be. 
5) In the past I already had you try to make a UI but accidentally had you make it all in one prompt and response instead of making a plan and implementing step by step. this is what the UI mockup to follow was /Users/fabrizioguccione/Projects/spoken-wardrobe-minimal/mockups/SpokenWardrobePipelineMockupV1.pdf (THIS DOES NOT INCLUDE THE MORE FINALISED VERSION WITH MORE STEPS THAT I DESCRIBED AND REFERENCED ABOVE! MAKE SURE TO MAKE THAT DISTINCTION THIS IS NOT THE ONE TO FOLLOW). This first version resulted in this UI/UX implementation documented here /Users/fabrizioguccione/Projects/spoken-wardrobe-minimal/UI_V1/DocumentationUI_V1/[UI UX Beginning] 2b62e7baf50d80e8a37ddc2b875fc4d7.md with the images that go with it here /Users/fabrizioguccione/Projects/spoken-wardrobe-minimal/UI_V1/DocumentationUI_V1/[UI UX Beginning] . THese were the followup pointers for improvement necessary to make it more like what i wanted (The references in the text are no longer available but you can get an idea through the actual content of the points): 
"Steps forward synthesized:

Priority: CRITICAL
[ ] 3vi  - Capture logic: ensure countdown frame is the one sent to SD/mesh
[ ] 3xiv - Restore mesh deformation responsiveness to user movement
[ ] 3xv  - Feed raw video frame (not keypoint-annotated frame) to SD/mesh; capture clean frame with flash

Priority: HIGH
[ ] 3v   - Add transitions between recording → "wish recorded" → camera feed → A-pose; remove opaque overlay covering camera; keep video running during countdown
[ ] 3ix  - Fix live-video freeze when entering image-preview stage
[ ] 3x   - Rebuild SD result flow: full image (10s) → pulsing analysis (3s) → cropped view (10s) → 3D generation

Priority: MEDIUM
[ ] 3iii - Add 7s keypoints-only preview with blue/purple keypoints; remove XYZ box; smooth fade to speaking overlay
[ ] 3iv  - Remove emoji in recording UI; ensure transcription stops after 2s below threshold (keep live transcript)
[ ] 3ii  - Remove redundant startup screen; adopt second screen + bottom "connecting" line; fade black intro to camera feed
[ ] 3vii - Add quick flash effect at capture → transition to loading

Priority: LOW
[ ] 3viii - Remove confusing "understanding" intermediate screen; go directly to mockup stage 6
[ ] 3xi  - Update "Almost ready" copy to indicate trying-on step
[ ] 3xii - Lower overlay opacity during calibration; update copy; set timer to 10s
[ ] 3xiii- Replace "your garment is ready" with "Garment calibrated..." for 5s
[ ] 3i   - Enforce global no-emojis policy across UI/text

---

Steps Forward (Claude Message addressing issues:)

3i) I want no emojis throughout the interaction

3ii) There is some weird thing happening with the first two seconds of the interaction starting up. There are two different screens that are redundant (the first [docs/pipeline_v3_referenceImages/Screenshot 2025-11-24 at 8.29.33 PM.png]  shows an emoji, which as I mentioned before I want removed, and also has the "connecting to camera" message, while the second [docs/pipeline_v3_referenceImages/Screenshot 2025-11-24 at 8.29.40 PM.png] is cleaner and more professional looking). I want basically just to have the second screen and add a little line of text at the bottom as the camera is connecting but this should not change the organization of on screen elements much unlike it does now. Moreover I want a smoother fade transition between the first screen instructing the user to step infront of the screen and the next stage of the viewer (make the first screen, which is black, fade away and reveal the camera feed)

3iii) Once the user steps into view (detected by the camera) I specifically showed in the pdf mockup that there should be a 7 second interaction where it is just the user being displayed with just their keypoints. If you compare this image [docs/pipeline_v3_referenceImages/Screenshot 2025-11-24 at 8.34.10 PM.png]  to image #2 (docs/pipeline_v3_referenceImages/Screenshot 2025-11-24 at 8.29.40 PM.png) (in 3ii) you will see that only a second passes between when the screen shows "step infront of the screen to begin" and the recording stage. This gives the user no time to understand that they are being recorded and that the camera is somehow detecting their body position. Reminder: I do not want the uglywhite box [docs/pipeline_v3_referenceImages/Screenshot 2025-11-24 at 8.36.17 PM.png]  that shows the X,Y, and Z distances to show up, instead I just want the keypoints and if you could turn their colors to match the blue and purple theme we have going on that would be great too. Again I want a smooth transition between the just camera feed stage of the viewer and when the instructions for speaking their wish comes up, which can just be a fade in of the grey opaque overlay)

3iv) remove the emoji from the recording instruction screen as I mentioned before, no emojis! Moreover, the recording logic should make it so the transcription of the user's wish stops when the loudness level falls below what we have dictated is the threshold for talking (after the calibration phase), Make sure this is still the case (as in this logic still exists) and also add in a little longer of a wait buffer so that the loudness level can fall below the threshold for 2 second before the transcription ends (just gives time for the user to think a second and still not end the transcription). As an example you can see that here I am talking and it is recording my "wish" but the transcription ends at "a" because I think I took a second pause before continuing [docs/pipeline_v3_referenceImages/Screenshot 2025-11-24 at 8.44.40 PM.png] . The words showing up from the transcription is good and make sure you keep that

3v) The next stage is the stage where we take the picture for the Stable Diffusion. There are quite a few problems here but I will start with one that is most apparent and that is that there is no time between the recording and the picture taking. I would like for you to add a little transition stage so from the recording once the transcription is over it first says "Your wish has been recorded" then that should fade away and leave JUST the camera feed again, then over the camera feed a new instruction shows saying "Taking picture to analyze clothing" (again reminder that this last instruction is just a warning to get the user ready and should be overlays on just the camera feed no opaque overlay with it), then and only then do we begin the A-pose countdown with the a-pose figure as a guide. This leads me to the next most apparent issue which is that the when the figure appears it is 1) over the instruction words [docs/pipeline_v3_referenceImages/Screenshot 2025-11-24 at 8.53.11 PM.png] and 2) the camera feed is barely visible because there is still the opaque overlay on the whole screen. As shown in stage 5. of the mockup that is not supposed to be there and it just supposed to be the A-pose with the instructions. Moreover, the countdown stops the entire live video every time the timer counts down a second, is there no way to have the countdown but keep the video running the entire time? 

3vi) THE NEXT IS A REALLY IMPORTANT ISSUE TO BE FIXED: the frame supposedly taken after the countdown for the stable diffusion is not the image that gets fed into stable diffusion, this is a really bad logic error since people are expecting to pose and use their image in the posing position to generate the clothing while instead the frame gets taken way later. Check the logic for this and really carefully understand the issue and the fix necessary 3vii) I want there to be a sort of camera flash effect on screen when the countdown ends to give visual feedback that the countdown has led to their image being taken. Basically the whole screen should fade quickly to white right after the countdown ends then go to the "Generating preview of dream clothing loading screen that is shown in stage 6. of my pdf mockup. 

3viii) Here there is some weird stuff happening that I dont want right after the countdown. 1) we go to a temporary screen where the A-pose figure is still present but it says "understanding" in the background [docs/pipeline_v3_referenceImages/Screenshot 2025-11-24 at 9.04.00 PM.png] and only after a couple of seconds of that screen do we go to what is your interpretation of my stage 6 in the mockup [docs/pipeline_v3_referenceImages/Screenshot 2025-11-24 at 9.04.21 PM.png]. That in-between stage is confusing and looks disorganized and should not be there. after the countdown we should go directly to the image #8 (docs/pipeline_v3_referenceImages/Screenshot 2025-11-24 at 9.04.21 PM.png) stage in the viewer. 

3ix) There is a weird live video feed freeze when the image #8 stage in the viewer appears before then returning to the user being able to move normally. Check why this is happening and attempt to fix it (shown in these images a couple seconds apart as shown in the bottom time [docs/pipeline_v3_referenceImages/Screenshot 2025-11-24 at 9.04.21 PM.png][docs/pipeline_v3_referenceImages/Screenshot 2025-11-24 at 9.04.34 PM.png] . I do want you however to keep the fact that you can see the live camera feed behind the opaque overlay while it is loading so keep that, it gives the user something to do while the thing loads

3x) the next up is a really big issue where when the stable diffusion image comes back it is really tiny and the organization on the viewer page looks nothing like the one in my mockup stage 7 where the image is centerview. Moreover, in my mockup we see the full image while in your version it has just the clothing [docs/pipeline_v3_referenceImages/Screenshot 2025-11-24 at 9.09.26 PM.png] (using the mask of the segmentation to crop it). I would like for you to split this up into 2 different stages. Again remmember that by showing them the clothing preview we are just buying ourselves time for the 3d mesh generation. So this is how this part of the pipeline should go 1) the image returns from stable diffusion 2) start the 3d mesh generation right away 3) show to the user the screen saying "preview is complete!" and first display the entire image no cropping for 10 seconds 4) We continue displaying the full image with no cropping but overlay some text saying "analyzing generated clothing" for 3 seconds and have it pulse like the A-pose figure does to signify loading 5) we transition through a fade (the fade is important) to the cropped image of the clothing to and display this for 10 seconds 6) then and only then after the 10 seconds we transition to the stage saying "generating 3d clothing from 2d image"

3xi) currently once the mesh is generated we go into a stage where it says "Almost ready" [docs/pipeline_v3_referenceImages/Screenshot 2025-11-24 at 9.24.03 PM.png] I think this needs some rethinking on the copywriting side. The text says almost ready but I want it to indicate that the next step involves them actually trying on the clothing. Maybe something like "Almost ready to try on!"

3xii) as we move onto the calibration for the mesh the opacity is too high (you cannot see the camera feed or the mesh) so I need you to remove the opaque overlay and also change the text to more clearly state "stand behind the clothing as if you were wearing it to calibrate" and increase the timer to 10 seconds [docs/pipeline_v3_referenceImages/Screenshot 2025-11-24 at 9.27.42 PM.png]

3xiii) there is an intermediary screen in the viewer showing "your garment is ready" instead just say "garment calibrated, move around and try on your new Dream Wear" and show this for 5 seconds to give them time to read [docs/pipeline_v3_referenceImages/Screenshot 2025-11-24 at 9.35.23 PM.png]

3xiv) this is another of the more critical issues, the mesh does not actually deform at all. as shown by these images where the user moves but no deformation occurs [docs/pipeline_v3_referenceImages/Screenshot 2025-11-24 at 9.37.14 PM.png][docs/pipeline_v3_referenceImages/Screenshot 2025-11-24 at 9.40.41 PM.png] . this was working in previous versions of the pipeline. It is good that the mesh is textured at least

3xv) the mesh shows something indicative of the image used to generate it and possibly generate the stable diffusion image too and that is that you are not taking the raw video frame and feeding it to the stable diffusion and then mesh generation but taking the frame with the keypoints. this is a crucial mistake that also needs to be addressed. attempt to do so without causing the video to freeze, which might mean just removing the keypoints for one frame during which you do the previously mentioned flash effect that I want you to add"

Make sure to look through these carefully points carefully to understand where the things you missed were in your previous attempt. 

6) create a thorough plan using all the information you have been given as well as the instructions making sure not to forget the details and the emphasis on slow and stead implementation. the plan should automatically inform you that you need to keep track of what phases we have completed and which are still to be completed (this can be achieved through some sort of checkbox system). Moreover I should be able to tell you to start implenentation from a phase of the plan without context and you should understand where we are in the implementation of the project as a whole and what needs to be done. 


